Now how do you come up with these key words in the first place?
Well, an easy starting point is going into the app store and going into the search tab.
Now for example, if you search for Ninja, the App Store will automatically suggest to you some of the
variations that users have used when they're looking for things that are related to the word Ninja.
So some of these words might be good keywords for you to jump on.
So this is basically the easiest and the least effort intensive way of coming up with keywords.
Now I'm going to show you a slightly more refined workflow for coming up with app store keywords.
The first thing you have to do is go and find a reverse dictionary online.
So one of my favorite is a dictionary called OneLook and it's free to use and it's basically at one
look.com.
Now don't go into that dictionary search because this only gives you definitions and don't go into the
theasaurus.
Instead what you want is the reverse dictionary.
Now a reverse dictionary is different from a thesaurus.
So whereas a thesaurus gives you all the synonyms of a particular word, the reverse dictionary gives
you words that are used in conjunction with your word.
So for example, if we type in coffee then we'll get a whole bunch of words that are used when people
use the word coffee.
So for example, Java or coffee bean or chocolate or coffee berry, espresso, latte, tea. And the words that
come out a reverse dictionary are pretty much perfect for use as keywords.
Now you do have to do a little bit of sifting through this because some of these are not ever going
to be searched like umber, burnt umber.
I have a feeling there's probably one search for that on the App Store per month.
So how so then the question is how do you figure out which of all of these words,
I mean there's pages and pages of this, are worth using as your keyword?
Well there's a very easy workflow for this.
Now this is where a service like Sensor Tower or App Annie comes into play.
So there's many of these such services out there and you can try and figure out which one you prefer
or which one has a better pricing model.
Personally, we use Sensor Tower. And what you can do with Sensor Tower is that if you go into the
products tab you can go to the App Store optimisation feature and what you can do is you can research
a whole bunch of keywords.
Now this is where those words from the reverse dictionary comes into use.
You can either go ahead and just copy these words one by one into your keyword space or if you're looking
for a little bit more efficiency than what I use is a free Chrome plugin code scraper.
Now once you've added that to Chrome, what you can do is you can highlight the type of data that you're
looking for.
So in this case is actually this piece of data and then you can right click and you can click on this
scrape similar button.
Now what that does is that it looks through the website and looks for data that's structured similarly
to that word Java.
Now then the next thing that you can do is you can hit copy to clipboard and copy all of that data and
paste it into here. So you will have the curate and add some commas between these word and maybe get
rid of some of these because they're not really going to help you.
Okay. So now we've added commas in between all the different words
and I've gotten rid of some of the words which I think probably are never going to be searched.
So now that we've got all our key words, all you have to do is hit track keyword and you'll get a number
of really important metrics.
Now the first thing that you want to look at is this column called traffic.
So as they say, this is an estimate of how many people are actively searching for this particular keyword.
So the higher the score, then the more traffic there is.
And the other important column is difficulty.
So this index lets you know how difficult it is to rank in the App Store for this particular keywords.
So that means the higher the score, the more apps are targeting that particular keyword.
So you're basically going to be in a large pool of a large number of apps.
So the sweet spot that I find is when the traffic score now the scores are different for different services.
But a sense of how what we found is that once the traffic score is above 3 and the difficulty is
below 3, then that is usually a pretty solid keyword.
And what you want to do is to create a Excel file or Google sheet to keep track of those keywords that
you have selected. And once you've made a full list of all the keywords, so this is usually 100 or 150,
then you can sort them and figure out what are your top keywords that you will cram into that 100 character
keyword field.
So this is pretty much our work flow
and in my opinion it's the best way of going about this. Instead of employing a ASO expert who is probably
going to do something very similar to this,
you can in fact just DIY and do it yourself. And you can optimize your keywords this way.